# Python-Project-2E
Research Question: Can we compare synthases for host entry receptors for influenza (sialic acid) among pigs and ferrets to determine if the latter are another reservoir for precursor avian influenza viruses between birds and humans and should be under more careful surveillance

Avian influenza viruses are a looming threat for the health and well-being of the human population, and there is increasing pandemic potential especially as we begin to share more space with animals that are also affected by their own influenza viruses. The influenza virus reaches its host by attaching to sialic acid receptors, which most animals have. As the distribution of these sialic receptors in animals becomes increasingly similar to that of humans, it increases the risk of zoonosis, the transfer of a virus subtype between animals and humans through mixing vessels (Trebbien, et al., 2011). Much research has confirmed that pigs are an intermediate host for the virus transfer between avian to humans. However, there has been much research on what other animals have the potential to be a mixing vessel for the transfer of pandemic-risk influenza subtypes to humans. One such animal, the ferret, have been speculated to be intermediate hosts for this zoonosis (Zhao et al., 2019). Our protein sequences of interest is the synthases of this sialic acid receptor for influenza, and we want to see if potential similarities of codon sequences can also suggest species susceptibility to influenza subtypes from other animals.

The database used was UniProtKB, a site that is a library for the sequences of many different proteins in organisms. We will compare the sequences of sialic acid synthase (often listed as N-acetylneuraminic acid synthase) in humans, avians (pheasant), pigs, our potential new intermediate host (ferret), and a control (mouse).

For the code, the synthases.fasta file is needed and contains all five synthase sequences to be compared. The result includes a heatplot of all the alignment scores, which is included in 'synthasesheatplot' as a PNG file.
